Budd 72' (Heritage) Baggage Car 1244 - Amtrak Ph. IV Paint
---------------------------------

Release v1.0, September 13th, 2001
For use with Microsoft Train Simulator.
Model and Textures by Buzz Benz
Physics and Lighting by Chuck Schneider
Created using 3D Canvas Pro v4.23.

Please turn Word Wrap ON!

** WARNING **
This is a BIG model.  It has worked OK so far on a variety of machines, but i cannot make any guarantees.  Future projects will not be as intense, and eventually i will do a much more efficient version of this car.


This is an all-new model for MSTS.  This is a model of a Budd 72' Baggage Car in Amtrak Phase IV paint.  The Budd streamline cars are referred to by Amtrak as the Heritage Series.  Amtrak inherited the majority of these cars from its host railroads when it was formed in 1971.  The cars they kept were made out of Stainless Steel (a few were Aluminum), which is why most of the Heritage Fleet were cars built by the Budd Corporation.  In the late 70's and early 80's, Amtrak converted the steam-heated Heritage fleet to use power generated from the loco (HEP).  This gave the fleet an extended life.   However, they are now currently being retired.  Although some Heritage cars are now gone completely, the baggage cars are still in use today, and probably will be for some time to come.


Installation
------------
1.  Create a new folder in the "Train Simulator\Trains\Trainset" folder called "HtBaggage".  If you already have an HtBaggage folder, proceed directly to step 2.

2.  Unzip "HtBagA41.zip" into the Train Simulator\Trains\Trainset\HtBaggage folder.

All four Amtrak phases of this car have been designed to use one folder, in an attempt to keep people's Trainset folders from getting TOO large!

That's it!
Why can't you name the folder whatever you want?  The reason has to do with consists.  If there is an acitivity that uses these cars in a consist,  in order for that consist to work properly, ALL the cars used MUST be present and in a folder named exactly what it was when the consist was created.


Known Issues
------------
- This car has lots of corrugations on it.  The result of this is a pretty bad Moire pattern at farther viewing distances.  It may or may not be completely solvable; however, the default equipment tends to do the same thing.

- There are some odd effects around the ribs above and below the stripes at zoomed out distances.  

- THIS MODEL CONATINS LOTS OF POLYGONS!  The majority of Amtrak trains use only one or two baggage cars, so the effect on a system should be no greater than adding another loco or two.

- FUN FACT!  In the Consist editor, try reversing MSTS cars (right click)!  The wheels all spin the wrong way!  This appears to be a comical bug in MSTS!


Legal Stuff
-----------

Source textures are available separately.  You are free to modify and distribute these files PROVIDED THAT they are NOT included in any package where money is to be made.  Basically you can distribute them as long as they remain free.  Hey, i don't care about the credit, i do care that they remain free.


Other Stuff
-----------

Thanks to Chuck Schneider for the lighting and physics on this car!!

Thanks to the Beta Testers:
Matt Donnelly
John Elliot
Brian Higinbotham
Freddie Huff
Ian Morgan
Bill Otten
Chuck Schneider
Tim Young
Dan Zollner 
Kevin ??

This is my first model for MSTS, hope you folks like it!

The source .bmp and .tga are not included here in the interest of those with slower download speed.  They will be available separately.

Questions?  Comments?  Feedback?

E-mail me (Emil A. "Buzz" Benz III) at ekbenz@msn.com

Thanks, and happy railroading!
------ BUZZ