Amtrak Budd baggage car pack, Phase IVb
---------------------------------------

Original models and textures by Buzz Benz, NALW
Original physics and lighting by Chuck Schneider, NALW
Repaint and modifications by Alex Stroshane

Last updated: 07 September 2005


Installation
------------

The filename of this zip file is "amtkbag5.zip".

Open the file in WinZip, and in the Extract dialog box, select "use folder names."

Extract to the /TRAIN SIMULATOR/TRAINS/TRAINSET directory.


Overview
--------

This is a repaint of the Amtrak Phase IV baggage car model released by Buzz Benz of NALW on 13 September 2001. The textures have been drastically improved to a more realistic appearance, and they will better match other models to be released later. Also, three different versions have been included to represent different variations of the car, and reskinners will find it possible to mix and match the different features to match specific prototypes. A separate shape file provides the Amtrak logo and car numbers at a higher resolution, and it would also be possible to create additional car numbers by simply copying these extra shape files. Please note that this would require some editing of .s and .wag files and is recommended only for reskinners with experience in modifying these file types.

To take advantage of the three car numbers included with this pack, you should modify your consist files or create new ones. Following are the filenames for each included car:

HtBagA4b1	1164
HtBagB4b1	1231
HtBagC4b1	1242


Notes
-----

This pack includes a new set of generic passenger car sound files. These are FAR superior to the original default sounds, so I highly recommend that you copy the contents of the /HtBaggage/SOUND folder into the /TRAIN SIMULATOR/SOUND directory. This will replace the default sounds with the new ones, and any other passenger cars using those files will sound better as well. With some minor editing or renaming of files, you can also apply these sounds to any other equipment that you choose.

Also, if you have the LightFX modification by Robert Fontaine installed, there are three additional .wag files with properly adjusted lighting sections. Make sure to edit your consist files to use these versions, or your lights will look too big with the regular values.


Prototype
---------

The models and textures in this pack depict a number of baggage cars built originally for the Santa Fe in 1953 by Budd and numbered in the 3500 and 3650 series. Many found their way onto Amtrak's roster and were converted for HEP (head-end power) service between 1978 and 1982. Thanks to their durable stainless-steel construction, most are still in service to this day.


Acknowledgements
----------------

Thanks are due to Buzz Benz and Chuck Schneider of NALW for the original release of this model. Also, the "x_pass_high.wav" sound file was modified from a recording by Matt Donnelly.

Matt Doti deserves credit for the lighting modifications for use with LightFX, and also for providing the initial inspiration for this repaint.

Additional thanks go to Jim Hebner of the Amtrak Photo Archive: http://www.hebners.net/amtrak


Disclaimer
----------

This set is FREEWARE, therfore it is not covered by any guarantees or warranties. No fee shall ever be charged for the procurement of this package, nor shall it be distributed in any form without the consent of the authors. The files contained herein may be modified for personal use, but permission of the authors must be obtained before any modifications may be released to the general public. Reverse engineering is strictly prohibited; however, use of the basic functions included in the Shape File Manager utility is permitted.

NOTE that many of the files contained herein are the original work of Buzz Benz and NALW. Some may have been renamed or modified, as in the case of the models and textures, but the copyrights reserved by the original authors are retained. These files include:

HtBagA4b1.s
HtBagA4b1.ace
HtBagA4b2.ace
HtBagB4b1.s
HtBagB4b1.ace
HtBagB4b2.ace
HtBagC4b1.s
HtBagC4b1.ace
HtBagC4b2.ace


Contact
-------

Alex Stroshane
stroshane.a@gmail.com

When sending e-mail to the author, be sure to include a relevant subject line. Otherwise, it may be presumed to be spam or a virus.