Thank you for reading first

I take you back to the Fall of 1995, specifically September 1995, just before parents Burlington Northern Inc. and Santa Fe Pacific Corporation were acquired on September 22, 1995 by the new Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation.  This is the fifth segment of the 1995 Westbound Southwest Chief. "Over the Pass".  After arriving in LaJunta, CO. about 40 minutes behind schedule you will continue your journey to Los Angeles over the Raton Sub. Even thougth much of Santa Fe's traffic has moved off of the Raton Sub, there is still a few trains that you will meet.  The climb to Raton Pass is a 3.5% grade or better in spots, so be aware.  Again, the weather is clear, and the objective is to see if you can make up time on the schedule.  In the DOCS folder of this Activity, is a copy of Amtrak's Timetable for the Fall/Winter 1995.  (Yes I know it was effective in late October but will use the SW Chief schedule, found on Page 30 as a timetable reference). Your task is to take the Southwest Chief to La Junta this morning. 

For the route I used Bob Wirth's Raton Pass III Sub (available on Trainsim.com).  There are only 3 AI trains that you will meet in your journey across the sub. One is the C-YCCH (York Canyon to Chicago) coal train.  Also you'll meet the BALJ manifest.  Both of these AI trains were modeled after their real life counter points, described in Pentrex's DVD "Raton Pass, King Coal, The Chief, and the "BALJ" "  I even tried to simulate the 5 minute stop Amtrak's SW Chief would have to make sometimes due to traction motors overheating.  The activity ends when boarding is complete at Las Vegas, NM.  

This is my fifth activity in what I hope to be the entire journey to Los Angeles on the Southwest Chief. In the DOCS folder for the route, I've included (as I said before) a timetable for Amtrak's Fall/Winter 1995 schedule (timetable.pdf).  Also is a required files list (required-file.txt) which contains a list of all downloads used in this activity (all segments) available from trainsim.com. The required files also has all the files necessary for the first segment which is required for this portion also.  One of the downloads from the first segment (atsf_sd45b_5502.zip) had an issue when following the installation instruction, I corrected the installation and the instructions for that locomotive is contained in the file "sd45bfix.txt".  A copy of this "Please-read-me-first.txt" as well as an Excel spreadsheet (atsf4.xlsx) that I used as sort of a worksheet when working up this activity.  The spreadsheet now contains 4 pages, OR Timetable, Required files, Consists and the options I used to develop/test this activity. (There were some issues with the fourth segment that some users ran into and this was finally tracked down to a difference in the settings I used to develop/test the activity, so I've included a listing of the settings as the 4 page of the spreadsheet.)   The OR Timetable page provides timetable hacks for developing AI Train meets across the sub. The Required Files is a copy of the "Required Files.txt" and the Consists page shows each consist and the download .zip file use in that consist. 

***Special NOTE***

I got intrigued by the C-YCCH Coal Train that Santa Fe ran during this time period.  So much so, I've included a bonus activity for the C-YCCH from York Canyon to the La Junta station.  This duplicates portions of a couple of activities already available in the Train sim Lib.  (ycm2rat.zip & 112rat2.zip, both by Bob Edwards. Bob Edwards also created a 3rd activity, 112mtrat.zip, which is the empties returning to York Canyon.)   In my version both are combined into one activity that extends to La Junta.  this is a difficult activity, as you first have to "build the train" at York Canyon, including the mid train helpers, then split the train at Raton to "Double the Hill" over the pass.  Then reassemble the train, then on to La Junta.  To complete this activity, you'll have to master Manual control over the signalling and switching,  Coupling and decoupling and insuring brake lines are connected. and building up of break pressure.  More information is included in the separate read me file for that activity.

******************

Instructions for Installing files and folders:

1.  In the TRAINS folder you will find the folder CONSIST with all the consist files included.  These 20 consist files (*.con) must be placed in your Train simulator \Trains\Consists folder in order for the activity to work.  

2.  In the TRAINS folder you will find the folder TRAINSETS.  TRAINSETS contains modifications to Wag files for engines in the folder ATSF_GP20_BYT2 and atsf_gp35.  (Both of these engines were parts of the required downloads in earlier segments).  Also included are the folders for ATSF180878, ga300, gp30atsf, hirom, sf1800, sf1810, sf1814, sf1820, and wsor-passenger-car (all downloaded from trainsim.com with respects to the authers of those equipment downloads. Coping these folders eliminates the need to download them)

2.  In the ROUTES folder is located the folder for the La Junta Sub (atljsb).  That folders contain files under the folders: Activities, Paths, Services, and Traffic.  Activities contains 1 file and Traffic contains 1 file, and there are 8 path files and 8 service files.  You must copy these files from each folder and paste them in the appropriately named folders in your Train Simulator\Routes\atljsb folders.   

3.  Read all of the instruction files included with this activity and follow the instructions.

The default Player train (southwest chief.con) is composed of all Streamlines (SLI) components.  This is a payware trainset that comes as part of Trainsimulations.net "BNSF Seligman Route" for Open Rails; BNSF Seligman Route 2.0 for MSTS; Santa Fe Seligman Route 2.0; and Amtrak Trainsets #1 all available from the Trainsimulations.net website.  If you wish to use a completely freeware version of the Southwest Chief, I've included an alternant consist that is composed of engines/cars available on trainsim.com.  In the DOCS folder, you will find two folders "alt service" and "orig service".  If you want to use the freeware version of the Southwest Chief, download the files marked Southwest Chief Alt (on Required Files.txt) from Trainsim.com, and install them according to their individual instructions. Copy the file contained in the "alt service" folder and place it in the \Routes\atljsb\SERVICES folder.  Replacing the original one supplied with the activity.  If you wish to return to the original player train consist (the SLI consist), copy the file contained in the "orig service" to the \Routes\atljsb\SERVICES folder. 

I've started working the next segment which is on Bob Wirth's Raton Pass III Sub.  Hope you enjoy your trip on the Southwest Chief.

++ Contact me at: Trainsim.com member name = amtrak115, Elvas Tower same member name 
